QUANTUM LEAPS QM (QP MODELER)
MODEL-BASED DESIGN AND CODE GENERATING SOFTWARE
END USER LICENSE AGREEMENT

These license terms are an agreement between Quantum Leaps and you.
Please read them. They apply to the QM model-based design tool as well
as to any accompanying documentation and examples.

BY USING THE SOFTWARE, YOU ACCEPT THESE TERMS. IF YOU DO NOT ACCEPT
THEM, DO NOT USE THE SOFTWARE.

1. DEFINITIONS

1.1 QM (QP Modeler) is a freeware model-based design (MBD) and automatic
code generation tool for real-time embedded software in C or C++ based on
hierarchical state machines (UML statecharts) and the event-driven
QP Real-Time Embedded Frameworks (RTEFs). QM is available for Windows,
Linux, and MacOS hosts.

1.2 QP (Quantum Platform) is a family of lightweight Real-Time Embedded
Frameworks (RTEFs) for building reactive embedded software as systems of
asynchronous event-driven active objects (actors). The QP family consists
of QP/C, QP/C++, and QP-nano frameworks, which are all strictly quality
controlled, thoroughly documented, and available in full source code.

The behavior of active objects is specified in QP by means of hierarchical
state machines (UML statecharts). The QP frameworks support manual coding
of UML state machines in C or C++ as well as Model-Based Design (MBD) and
automatic code generation by means of the free QM Model-Based Design tool. 
The QP framework familiy has been described in the book "Practical UML
Statecharts in C/C++, Second Edition" by Miro Samek, (ISBN: 978-0750687065).

1.3 "Qt Toolkit" is a cross-platform application and UI framework. The
Qt Toolkit is Copyright (C) Qt Group (Nasdaq Helsinki: QTCOM) and/or its
subsidiary(-ies) and other contributors. Qt Toolkit can be used under the
Lesser GNU General Public License (LGPL v3), (see:
https://doc.qt.io/qt-5/lgpl.html).

1.4 "Licensed Software" means the QM executable, documentation, and
example models. The Licensed Software expressly does NOT include the
source code generated by the QM code generator, which is licensed under
the same terms as the underlying QP framework(s).

1.5 "Quantum Leaps Core Market" means the market for event-driven
real-time embedded frameworks as well as graphical state machine
model-based design and code generating software.


2. GRANT OF COPYRIGHT LICENSE

Quantum Leaps grants to you, and you hereby accept, a nonexclusive,
nontransferable license to do the following:

2.1 to install and use the Licensed Software for the purpose of
designing, developing, documenting, testing, and demonstrating your
programs; and

2.2 to create QM models. Any models that you create by QM shall be your
Intellectual Property, subject to any rights Quantum Leaps may have in
the underlying software, such as the QP frameworks, pursuant to the
following Section 3 hereof ("EXCLUSIONS FROM LICENSE GRANT").


3. EXCLUSIONS FROM LICENSE GRANT

The Licensed Software is licensed by this Agreement, not sold or given
away. This Agreement only grants you some rights to use the software.
Quantum Leaps reserves all other rights.

3.1 No right is granted to the code generated by the QM code generator,
which is licensed under the same terms as the as the underlying QP
framework(s). The QP frameworks are licensed independently and
separately from this Agreement.

3.2 No right is granted to trademarks, copyrights, patents, trade
secrets or any other Intellectual Property of Quantum Leaps, even if
such trademarks are included in the Licensed Software.

3.3 No right is granted to the Qt Toolkit, which is copyright by Qt Group 
and/or its subsidiary(-ies) and other contributors (see
https://www.qt.io) and is used by the Licensed Software under the LGPL
v2.1 open source license (see Section 5 "Compliance with LGPL").

3.4 Nothing in this Agreement shall be interpreted to prohibit Quantum
Leaps from licensing under different terms from this Agreement any
original work that Quantum Leaps otherwise would have a right to license.


4. LIMITATIONS ON THE USE OF THE LICENSED SOFTWARE

You may use the Licensed Software only as expressly permitted in this
Agreement. In doing so, you must comply with any technical limitations
in the software that only allow you to use it in certain ways. By
accepting this Agreement you agree to the following:

4.1 You may not remove or modify any copyright notes, legal notes,
license information,  attribution notes, logos, URLs, or e-mail
addresses embedded in the source code generated by QM, or in the QM
executable and in the QM documentation;

4.2 You may not sell, rent, lease or lend the Licensed Software; and

4.3 You may not use the Licensed Software to create similar stand-alone
products within Quantum Leaps' Core Market.


5. COMPLIANCE WITH LGPL

The Licensed Software uses the Qt Toolkit under the terms of LGPL.
The Licensed Software complies with the LGPL in the following ways:

5.1 The Licensed Software dynamically links to the unmodified Qt
Framework, as provided by the Qt Project (see 
https://doc.qt.io/qt-5/lgpl.html) in the pre-compiled binary format.

5.2 All users of the Licensed Software are expressly allowed to use
their own versions of the Qt Toolkit libraries as long as they remain
interface-compatible with the libraries originally used to build the
Licensed Software.

5.3 Every installation of the Licensed Software contains the "qt_lgpl"
folder with the copy of the Qt licenses, including the LGPL v2.1, as
well as the file index.html, which describes how to download, install,
and bulid the Qt Toolkit dynamically linked libraries in the exact
version used by the Licensed Software.

5.4 The source code distributions of Qt Toolkit used in the Licensed
Software are provided on the Quantum Leaps website, where they are
guaranteed to be available for at least three (3) years after the
original release date of the Licensed Software.

5.5 The "about box" of the QM application prominently states that this
program uses the Qt Toolkit under the terms of LGPL v2.1. Also the QM
Manual prominently states that this program uses the Qt Toolkit under
the terms of LGPL v2.1.


6. DISCLAIMER OF WARRANTY

BECAUSE THE QM SOFTWARE IS LICENSED FREE OF CHARGE, IT IS LICENSED "AS
IS" WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EITHER EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED,
INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY
AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. THE ENTIRE RISK AS TO THE QUALITY
AND PERFORMANCE OF THE LICENSED SOFTWARE IS WITH YOU. SHOULD THE
SOFTWARE PROVE DEFECTIVE, YOU ASSUME THE COST OF ALL NECESSARY
SERVICING, REPAIR OR CORRECTION.

IN NO EVENT UNLESS REQUIRED BY APPLICABLE LAW SHALL QUANTUM LEAPS BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR DAMAGES, INCLUDING ANY GENERAL, SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL OR
CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES ARISING OUT OF THE USE OR INABILITY TO USE THE
LICENSED SOFTWARE (INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO LOSS OF DATA OR DATA
BEING RENDERED INACCURATE OR LOSSES SUSTAINED BY YOU OR THIRD PARTIES OR
A FAILURE OF THE SOFTWARE TO OPERATE WITH ANY OTHER PROGRAMS), EVEN IF
SUCH HOLDER OR OTHER PARTY HAS BEEN ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGES. NO LICENSE TO THE LICENSED SOFTWARE IS GRANTED HEREUNDER EXCEPT
UNDER THIS DISCLAIMER.


7. CONTACT INFORMATION

Any questions or concerns related to this Agreement should be directed
to Quantum Leaps at the following e-mail address:

info@state-machine.com
